V1.0.0 RC (#182)
OWASP/maswe: weaknesses/MASVS-CRYPTO/MASWE-0016.md

Author: Dio: DONE

---
title: Improper Random Number Generation
id: MASWE-0016
alias: improper-random-number-generation
requirement: "The app properly generates random numbers."
platform: [android, ios]
profiles: [L1, L2]
threat: MAS-THREAT-0016
attacks: [MAS-ATTACK-0001, MAS-ATTACK-0019, MAS-ATTACK-0024]
mappings:
  masvs-v1: [MSTG-CRYPTO-6]
  masvs-v2: [MASVS-CRYPTO-1]
  cwe: [332, 337, 338]
  android-risks:
  - weak-prng
  android-core-app-quality: [Cryptographic_Algorithms]
  maswe-beta: [MASWE-0027]
refs:

> - https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1750.txt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4086
```
rfc4086 succeeds rfc1750

- **Non-Random Sources**: Using custom methods to create "supposedly random" values from non-random sources such as the current time.
- **Hardcoded or Predictable Seeds**: Seeding a generator deterministically, e.g. with a hardcoded seed value shipped in the app.

## Impact

- **Authentication or Authorization Bypass**: Attackers can predict session tokens, one-time passwords, or password-reset codes, resulting in unauthorized access to user accounts or privileged functionality.
- **Compromise of Sensitive Data**: Attackers can reproduce cryptographic material derived from predictable values and decrypt protected information, resulting in unauthorized disclosure of sensitive data.

## Mitigations

- **Use Cryptographically Secure RNGs**: For security-relevant contexts, always generate random values with a cryptographically secure random number generator provided by the platform.
- **Avoid Deterministic Seeding**: Do not use any random function in a deterministic way, even a secure one, and especially avoid hardcoded seed values, which can be recovered by decompiling the app.

> - **Follow Established Guidance**: Refer to [RFC 1750 - Randomness Recommendations for Security](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1750.txt) and the [OWASP Cryptographic Storage Cheat Sheet - Secure Random Number Generation](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Cryptographic_Storage_Cheat_Sheet.html#secure-random-number-generation) for recommendations on random number generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Follow Established Guidance**: Refer to [RFC 4086 - Randomness Requirements for Security](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4086) and the [OWASP Cryptographic Storage Cheat Sheet - Secure Random Number Generation](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Cryptographic_Storage_Cheat_Sheet.html#secure-random-number-generation) for recommendations on random number generation.
```
